[BRAND]
Name under validation - never hard-code it
Brand Guidelines
Version 3 - built on competitive research
1. The competitive research, and what it found
1.1 Who we studied
Ultra-luxury beds: Hastens, Vispring, Savoir, Duxiana, Marshall and Stewart. Premium DTC: Simba, Emma, Eight Sleep, Saatva. High-end furniture and interiors: the Milan and London design landscape as reported through 2026.
1.2 Finding one - the whole category competes on heritage, and we cannot
Hastens founded 1852. Vispring 1901, and made the mattresses for the Titanic. Savoir created for the Savoy hotel. Every luxury bed brand's positioning rests on the same claim: we have been doing this for a century.
We have no heritage and cannot manufacture it. Any attempt to imply age, tradition or lineage will read as pastiche and will be caught by a buyer who researches. This closes off the entire conventional route to luxury positioning in this category.
1.3 Finding two - the most successful luxury bed brand differentiates on a PATTERN, not technology
The single most useful thing the research produced
Hastens is recognised worldwide by its blue and white check. Retailers describe it as 'pretty much their visual signature' and note that 'the bed is designed to be seen as much as felt'. Not the horsehair, not the spring count - the check.
The lesson is not to copy a pattern. It is that in a category where every product looks broadly the same under a sheet, an ownable visual device does more work than any specification. It is the cheapest and most durable differentiator available, and almost nobody in premium DTC uses one.
1.4 Finding three - warm Scandinavian minimalism is now the default, not a differentiator
The design press through 2026 is consistent: the decade-long dominance of Scandinavian-inflected minimalism is giving way to material intensity, richer palettes, patinated metals, darker woods and visible evidence of the maker's hand. One editor put it plainly - this is not minimalism, minimalism stripped away; what is happening now adds back, but with discrimination.
This matters because our version 1 and 2 guidelines described warm Scandinavian minimalism. Off-white, stone, restraint, whitespace. That is now what every premium DTC brand looks like, from Emma to Simba to every furniture startup. Being more restrained is not differentiation. It is camouflage.
1.5 The gap we can own
Territory
Owned by
Open to us
Heritage and lineage
Hastens, Vispring, Savoir
No - and pretending is fatal
Convenience and price
Simba, Emma, Otty
No - and we do not want it
Warm minimal aesthetic
Everyone in premium DTC
No - it is the default
Technology and data
Eight Sleep
Partially - but we have no sensors
Honest modern engineering, with an ownable visual device
Nobody
YES
2. The position this leads to
Positioning statement
We are not old. We are not pretending to be. [BRAND] is the mattress engineered now, for how people actually live - built to be refreshed rather than replaced, and made to order so nothing is wasted. Where the heritage brands offer a century, we offer a better idea.
Why this works against the incumbents
Against
Their claim
Our counter
Hastens, Vispring, Savoir
A century of craft
A century of doing it the same way. We changed the part that wears.
Simba, Emma, Otty
Convenience and discount
Made for you, not stacked in a warehouse.
Eight Sleep
Technology and tracking
No subscription, no app, no sensors to fail. Just a better bed.
Brand essence
A better bed, for life. Refresh it, do not replace it.
Personality
Modern, exact, quietly confident, unsentimental. We do not romanticise the past because we did not come from it. We are interested in how things are made now.
3. The Line - our visual device
This is the wow factor
Our mattress has a zip that runs the full perimeter, separating the white quilted top from the dark base. It is the visible expression of the one thing no competitor offers. It is structurally unique to the product. And it is a single, clean, horizontal line where two materials meet.
The Line becomes the brand device - the equivalent of what the check is for Hastens. Product-derived, instantly recognisable, and impossible to copy without copying the product.
What The Line is
A single horizontal rule where two tones meet: light above, dark below. Nothing more. It is not a logo, not an icon, not a graphic flourish. It is a structural device that appears throughout the system.
Where it appears
Application
Expression
Section dividers
A hairline rule with light above and dark below, or a tonal shift at the same edge
Page structure
Major sections separated by the transition rather than by whitespace alone
Logo lockup
An optional fine rule set beneath the wordmark at the same proportion
Photography
Compose to place the product's real zip line on a horizontal third
Packaging
A single band where the two materials of the box meet
Order portal
Stage progression rendered as a line advancing, not a bar filling
Video
Transitions as a horizontal wipe, never a fade or a cut
Rules
Always horizontal. Never angled, curved, vertical or decorative.
Always a true division between two tones - not a rule floating on one background.
Hairline weight: 1px on screen, 0.25pt in print. It should be noticed, not announced.
One per view. Two Lines competing destroys the device.
Never coloured. It is the meeting of two tones, not a stroke in a brand colour.
4. Colour - derived from the product, not from a mood board
Version 2 specified off-white, stone, navy and gold. The product is white and charcoal. That mismatch was a mistake: the palette should come from the object, and the object already has the highest-contrast, most confident colourway in the category.
Snow#F5F4F1
Bone#E4E1DA
Graphite#3A3A3C
Carbon#1A1A1A
Ember#8A6D3B
Roles
Colour
Role
Use
Snow F5F4F1
Light ground
The top surface. Primary background, product grounds
Bone E4E1DA
Secondary light
Cards, table stripes, subtle separation
Graphite 3A3A3C
Mid dark
Secondary dark surfaces, borders, muted text
Carbon 1A1A1A
Dark ground
The base. Headings, dark sections, the wordmark, body text
Ember 8A6D3B
Accent, sparing
Fine detail only. Never a fill. Never more than 2% of a view
The contrast principle
Light above, dark below. This is the product and it is now the layout logic. Pages move between light and dark grounds, divided by The Line. That structural rhythm is more distinctive than any palette of neutrals, and it is derived from the object rather than applied to it.
Accessibility - WCAG 2.2 AA
Combination
Ratio
Status
Carbon 1A1A1A on Snow F5F4F1
16.4:1
AAA
Snow F5F4F1 on Carbon 1A1A1A
16.4:1
AAA
Graphite 3A3A3C on Snow F5F4F1
10.1:1
AAA
Ember 8A6D3B on Snow F5F4F1
4.8:1
AA - not below 16px
Snow F5F4F1 on Graphite 3A3A3C
10.1:1
AAA
Minimum 4.5:1 body text, 3:1 large text and UI. Never rely on colour alone. Focus states always visible.
5. Typography
Where the category reaches for a serif to signal heritage, we do not. A precise, modern sans as the display face is itself a positioning statement - it says engineered, not inherited. This is a deliberate break from every competitor studied.
Role
Typeface
Weights
Use
Display
A precise grotesque - Neue Haas Grotesk, Suisse Int'l, or Inter Tight
Medium, Semibold
Wordmark, H1, H2
Text
The same family, lighter weights
Regular, Medium
Body, UI, labels, tables
Numerals
Tabular figures throughout
-
Prices, dimensions, specifications
Scale
Level
Desktop
Mobile
Line height
Tracking
Display / H1
64px
38px
1.02
-0.02em
H2
44px
30px
1.1
-0.015em
H3
24px
20px
1.25
-0.01em
Body large
19px
17px
1.55
0
Body
16px
16px
1.6
0
Caption
14px
14px
1.5
0
Label
12px
12px
1.4
0.14em, uppercase
Rules
One typeface family only. The contrast comes from weight and scale, not from mixing faces.
Display sizes set very tight with negative tracking. This is the typographic signature.
Tabular figures for every number so specifications and prices align in columns.
Body never below 16px. Measure 60 to 75 characters.
Never justify. Never letterspace lowercase body text.
6. Layout
Spacing scale
4  8  12  16  24  32  48  64  96  128  192  (px)
Grid
Desktop: 12 columns, 24px gutters, 1240px max width, 80px minimum page margin.
Mobile: 4 columns, 16px gutters, 20px page margin.
Section rhythm: 128px desktop, 72px mobile.
The alternating ground principle
Sections alternate between light and dark grounds, divided by The Line. Not every section - roughly every third. The rhythm of light, light, dark is what makes the structure feel composed rather than scrolled. This replaces whitespace as the primary spatial signal and is what differentiates the layout from the sea of all-cream premium DTC sites.
Material intensity, not flat minimalism
Surfaces may carry subtle texture - a fine paper grain, a woven suggestion - at very low opacity. Never a visible pattern.
Photography is large and full-bleed at section transitions.
Empty space is generous but purposeful. This is composed, not sparse.
7. Imagery
Direction
Editorial, not catalogue. The reference set is architectural photography and design press, not furniture retail. Strong single images, considered composition, real light.
Principles
High contrast. The product is white and near-black - photograph it that way rather than washing it into beige.
Real light with direction. Raking side light reveals the quilting and the weave. Flat lighting kills both.
Materiality. Texture is the argument: the knit, the zip teeth, the stitch, the layer edge.
Compose to The Line. Place the product's real zip on a horizontal third wherever the frame allows.
Treatment
Attribute
Specification
Colour temperature
Neutral. Never warmed to beige, never cooled to blue
Contrast
Higher than category norm. Retain detail in both extremes
Saturation
Low. Near-neutral. The product carries no colour
Shadow
Deep and clean. Shadows are structure, not softness
Grain
None
Crop
Loose. Nothing important within 10% of an edge
Never
Showroom or retail mattress photography.
Beige-washed lifestyle interiors that could belong to any brand.
Text overlays, badges, starbursts, price flashes.
Stock cliches - couples bouncing, thumbs up, pyjama laughter.
8. Motion
Principles
Motion is horizontal. Where a transition is needed, it moves along The Line. Wipes, not fades. This is the device expressed in time.
Nothing bounces or overshoots. This brand is exact. Springs and elastic easing belong to a different personality.
One movement per view. Simultaneous animation reads as cheap.
Specification
Interaction
Duration
Easing
Hover, small state change
120ms
ease-out
Scroll reveal
450ms
cubic-bezier(0.22, 1, 0.36, 1)
Section wipe transition
600ms
cubic-bezier(0.22, 1, 0.36, 1)
Panel or modal
280ms
ease-out
Reveal: opacity 0 to 1 with translateY 20px to 0. Trigger at 20% in viewport, once only.
Stagger siblings by 50ms maximum.
Respect prefers-reduced-motion. Disable reveals and autoplay entirely where requested.
Video muted always, captioned where speech occurs, poster frame on every instance.
9. Design tokens
--ground-light:   #F5F4F1;   /* Snow      */
--ground-soft:    #E4E1DA;   /* Bone      */
--ground-mid:     #3A3A3C;   /* Graphite  */
--ground-dark:    #1A1A1A;   /* Carbon    */
--accent:         #8A6D3B;   /* Ember     */
--font:           'Neue Haas Grotesk', 'Inter Tight', system-ui, sans-serif;
--font-numeric:   tabular-nums;
--space-1:4px;  --space-2:8px;   --space-3:12px;  --space-4:16px;
--space-5:24px; --space-6:32px;  --space-7:48px;  --space-8:64px;
--space-9:96px; --space-10:128px; --space-11:192px;
--line:           1px solid;      /* The Line - hairline only */
--radius:         0px;            /* nothing is rounded */
--ease:           cubic-bezier(0.22, 1, 0.36, 1);
--dur-fast:       120ms;
--dur-base:       450ms;
--dur-wipe:       600ms;
10. Verbal identity
Voice
Exact, calm, unsentimental. We state facts and let them do the work. We never reach for adjectives where a number will serve.
The heritage counter
When the category says 'since 1852', we say what we did instead. Never disparage the incumbents - they make fine beds. Simply be specific about the present. 'Made after you order it.' '37cm. Seven zones.' 'Replace the layer, keep the bed.' Specificity beats nostalgia when the buyer is comparing.
Headline formulas
Formula
Example
Contrast
Change your comfort, not your mattress.
Flat statement
Made to order. Made to last.
Specification as line
37cm. Seven zones. One bed, for decades.
Counter-heritage
We did not inherit this. We engineered it.
Conventions
Sentence case everywhere except the wordmark. No exclamation marks.
Numerals for all measurements and prices. Tabular figures.
Hyphens, never em or en dashes.
British English. Second person.
Use: engineered, exact, made to order, refresh, replace the layer, seven zones.
Avoid: heritage, timeless, artisanal, luxury (as an adjective), revolutionary, hurry.
11. AI-generated content
The integrity rule
The product is always the real product. The environment may be generated. Generating or altering the mattress itself - depth, colour, stitching, quilting, piping, handles - is misrepresentation, a legal risk in the UK and UAE, and destroys the trust everything else is built on.
If a generation has changed the product, discard and regenerate. Never fix in post.
The swap sequence must be real footage.
"Preserve the mattress exactly as provided - do not alter its shape,
proportions, depth, colour, stitching, quilting pattern, piping or
handles. Place it unchanged into the scene described. High contrast,
neutral colour temperature, directional light, deep clean shadows."
Generate natively in the target aspect ratio. Generate at maximum resolution then upscale.
Never generate people appearing to endorse, nor anything resembling a review, award or certification.
A human approves every asset.
12. The check
Does it look like it came from a brand that engineers rather than inherits? If it looks heritage, it is wrong.
Is The Line present, once, horizontal, as a true division between two tones?
Is the contrast high? If the image has been warmed into beige, it is the default aesthetic and it is wrong.
One typeface family, weight and scale doing the work.
Product matches reality exactly - 37cm, white quilted top, dark side panel, piping, handles.
Contrast ratios pass AA. Nothing relies on colour alone.
Sentence case, no exclamation marks, hyphens not em dashes, numerals for measurements.
Motion is horizontal, single, and respects prefers-reduced-motion.
No unearned badges, awards, reviews or heritage implications.
A human has approved it.